:: Jan 6, 2023

(video recording)
Ticket spicket uses node, jquery, 
Node has a REPL (read evaluate print loop)

:: 2:00
Show js console by typing Node
javascript website, node.green
:: 9:36
usually use anonymous arrow functions rather than old style.
::10:30
may ommit braces to return an expression on one line (implicit returns) or use ()
if see paren, arrow, paren, most likely implicit return.
if only one parameter, do not need ()
exception is scope of the 'this' keyword
old vs arrow functions: new arrow style preserves the outer scope of this (called lexical scope), thus do not need outer bind after function to preserve scope.
this is the only reason an arrow function might ever not be used, or if the name of the function needs to be something specific.
See lots of arrow fns and implicit returns.
Andrew usually adds parens to single params
Also, arrow fn's cannot use arguments argument that lists all arguments even if undefined.
:: 23:30
var keyword is function scoped, not block scoped
:: 27:34
js does what's called hoisting of variables (var) within a function so that they are available to all calls, even in other loops.
using let (or const) keyword prevents hoisting, returns variables to block scope.
:: 29:30 
Something called temporal dead zone that does hoisting, wherein with let, cannot use variable until it is initialized. (errmsg)
:: 30:21
const, arrays, objects: can manipulate arrays and objects, but cannot change it to a different array or a different object.
Can also define variables within nested objects
:: 26:28
Relatively new feature in js: Default Parameters, confusing looking, not today.
:: 37:22
js has undefined and NULL, bc NULL is considered a defined value.
destructuring
:: 40:01
Sparse arrays, such as [1, <empty items>, 10] probably not a good idea to use, but can be used in an array to get specific items in array.
:: 43:30
Using the above in reverse, called shorthand properties on node.green website.
Like destructuring, anichols calls restructures.
Aaron Shearer shares everything is an object
Anichols shares .isarray is a handy way of knowing if a thing is an array.
:: 47:02
Next is spreading things
spread and rest

Next friday: 
computed properties and objects
shorthand methods forof loops
template literals
nullish coalescing
logical assignment
optional chaining
